SC-101v2: Clarify Authorization Domain Names (#627)
cabforum/documents: docs/BR.md

Reviewer: I've added an effective date of 2026-09-15. This should be plenty of time for CAs to comply, since the intent of the ballot is to codify and clarify existing acceptable behavior, not massively change allowed behavior. We can discuss how the effective date is implemented (I've used the same approach as the NCSSRs did, since this change touches so many subsections) in the Validation call tomorrow morning.

#### 3.2.2.4 Validation of Domain Authorization or Control

> Prior to 2026-09-15, the CA SHALL adhere to Section 3.2.2.4 (and its subsections) of these requirements or Section 3.2.2.4 of Version 2.2.7 of the Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted TLS Server Certificates. Effective 2026-09-15, the CA SHALL adhere to Section 3.2.2.4 of these requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prior to 2026-09-15, the CA SHALL adhere to Section 3.2.2.4 (and its subsections) of these Requirements or Section 3.2.2.4 of Version 2.2.7 of the Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted TLS Server Certificates. Effective 2026-09-15, the CA SHALL adhere to Section 3.2.2.4 of these Requirements.
```

This section defines the permitted processes and procedures for validating the Applicant's ownership or control of the domain.

The CA MUST follow this process when choosing the Authorization Domain Name "ADN" for validation of each applied-for FQDN or Wildcard Domain Name:

1. Initialize `A` to the applied-for FQDN or Wildcard Domain Name.
2. Choose a validation method. If `A` is a Wildcard Domain Name, the CA MUST choose a validation method that allows wildcard issuance. If `A` is an Onion Domain Name, the CA MUST choose a validation method that allows Onion Domain Name issuance.
3. If `A` is an FQDN, choose at most one:
  a. If the validation method allows CNAME lookups when choosing the ADN, replace `A` with the result of a DNS CNAME lookup of `A`.

>   c. If the validation method allows pruning domain labels when choosing the ADN, prune zero or more Domain Labels of `A` from left to right until encountering the Base Domain Name of `A` or the CA chooses to stop pruning, whichever comes first.

Reviewer 3: Is there a missing subsection 3(b)?

Author: Nope, this was a drafting error. Fixed, and thanks for noticing.

1. Initialize `A` to the applied-for FQDN or Wildcard Domain Name.
2. Choose a validation method. If `A` is a Wildcard Domain Name, the CA MUST choose a validation method with a check in the Wildcard column below. If `A` is an Onion Domain Name, the CA MUST choose a validation method with a check in the Onion column below.
3. If `A` is an FQDN:
    1. Optionally, if the validation method has a check in the CNAME column below, replace `A` with the result of a DNS CNAME lookup of `A`.
    2. If the validation method has a check in the Prune column below, prune zero or more Domain Labels of `A` from left to right until `A` is equal to the Base Domain Name of `A`, or the CA chooses to stop pruning, whichever comes first.
4. If `A` is a Wildcard Domain Name:
    1. Remove "\*." from the left-most portion of `A`.
    2. If the validation method has a check in the Prune column below, prune zero or more Domain Labels of `A` from left to right until `A` is equal to the Base Domain Name of `A`, or the CA chooses to stop pruning, whichever comes first.
5. Use `A` as the ADN.

> | Method                                         | Wildcard | Prune | CNAME | Onion |

Reviewer 4: Text and table specifically states what to do with Wildcards and where they are or are not allowed, however "...other FQDNs that end with all the Domain Labels of the validated FQDN," have not been specifically addressed.  I suggest that either 'other FQDNs' be explicitly lumped in with Wildcard in the table, or other specific text and an additional column in the table added to specify when they are allowed.  See additional note on this subject below.

Author: The "prune" column is equivalent to "other FQDNs." The old BR language specified the behavior twice: once in ADN selection and again in these Note: sections. I've clarified that the operating principle is ADN selection.

Say a subscriber wishes to issue for `www.example.com`, and the CA has performed a validation for `example.com` via `3.2.2.4.7 DNS Change`, and that validation is still valid. During ADN selection, the CA prunes one label (`www`) and uses `example.com` as the ADN, relying on the existing validation.

Reviewer: The "Prune" column of the table covers "other FQDNs that end with all the Domain Labels of the validated FQDN". If a validation method allows pruning during ADN construction, then a validation for a given ADN can be used for other FQDNs that also prune to that same ADN. These are the same thing.

##### 3.2.2.4.4 Email to a Constructed Address

Confirm the Applicant's control over the ADN by:

> 1. Sending an email to one or more addresses created by using 'admin', 'administrator', 'webmaster', 'hostmaster', or 'postmaster' as the local part, followed by the at-sign ("@"), followed by the Authorization Domain Name; and

Reviewer 5: Nit: unless there is a reason why we're not using the acronym? 

```suggestion
1. Sending an email to one or more addresses created by using 'admin', 'administrator', 'webmaster', 'hostmaster', or 'postmaster' as the local part, followed by the at-sign ("@"), followed by the ADN; and
```

##### 3.2.2.4.3 Phone Contact with Domain Contact

This method has been retired and MUST NOT be used. Prior validations using this method and validation data gathered according to this method SHALL NOT be used to issue certificates.

##### 3.2.2.4.4 Constructed Email to Domain Contact

Confirm the Applicant's control over the ADN by

1. Sending an email to one or more addresses created by using 'admin', 'administrator', 'webmaster', 'hostmaster', or 'postmaster' as the local part, followed by the at-sign ("@"), followed by the Authorization Domain Name; and
2. including a Random Value in the email; and
3. receiving a confirming response utilizing the Random Value.

The Random Value SHALL be unique in each email.

The email MAY be re-sent in its entirety, including the re-use of the Random Value, provided that its entire contents and recipient SHALL remain unchanged.

The Random Value SHALL remain valid for use in a confirming response for no more than 30 days from its creation. The CPS MAY specify a shorter validity period for Random Values.

> 

Reviewer 4: Removal of this note and these "Note" statements in other places throughout this section potentially makes  very large changes to the section, particularly with respect to, "...other FQDNs that end with all the Domain Labels of the validated FQDN," as the additional text added above in 3.2.2.4 has only explicitly addressed the Wildcard case.  Additionally these "Note" sections have been inconsistently treated as many, but not all of them have been deleted.

Reviewer: I've double-checked to ensure that all of these "Note" sections have been removed. There are notes in other parts of the BRs, but none remain in Section 3.2.2.4's subsections.

Addressing "...other FQDNs that end with all the Domain Labels of the validated FQDN" is already handled by the "Prune" column of the table in 3.2.2.4.

##### 3.2.2.4.7 DNS Change

Confirming the Applicant's control over the ADN by confirming the presence of a Random Value or Request Token in a DNS CNAME, TXT or CAA record returned in a query for either:

> 1. the Authorization Domain Name; or

Reviewer 5: Nit

```suggestion
1. the ADN; or
```

> 2. the Authorization Domain Name prefixed with a Domain Label that begins with an underscore character.

Reviewer 5: Nit

```suggestion
2. the ADN prefixed with a Domain Label that begins with an underscore character.
```

##### 3.2.2.4.12 Validating Applicant as a Domain Contact

Confirming the Applicant's control over the ADN by validating the Applicant is the Domain Contact for the ADN. This method may only be used if the ADN's Base Domain Name is equal to the ADN. This method may only be used if the CA is also the Domain Name Registrar, or an Affiliate of the Registrar, of the ADN.

The Domain Contact for an ADN is: The registrant, technical contact, or administrative contact (or the equivalent under a ccTLD) as listed in the WHOIS record of the ADN or as obtained through direct contact with the Domain Name Registrar, or the holder of the email address in an SOA record for the ADN.

This method allows wildcard issuance.

This method allows pruning domain labels when choosing the ADN.

This method does not allow CNAME lookups when choosing the ADN.

Effective January 15, 2025:
- When issuing Subscriber Certificates, the CA MUST NOT rely on Domain Contact information obtained using an HTTPS website, regardless of whether previously obtained information is within the allowed reuse period.

> - When obtaining Domain Contact information for a requested ADN the CA:

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
- When obtaining Domain Contact information for the ADN the CA:
```

     - if using the WHOIS protocol (RFC 3912), MUST query IANA's WHOIS server and follow referrals to the appropriate WHOIS server.
     - if using the Registry Data Access Protocol (RFC 7482), MUST utilize IANA's bootstrap file to identify and query the correct RDAP server for the domain.
     - MUST NOT rely on cached 1) WHOIS server information that is more than 48 hours old, or 2) RDAP bootstrap data from IANA that is more than 48 hours old, to ensure that it relies upon up-to-date and accurate information.

##### 3.2.2.4.13 Email to DNS CAA Contact

Confirming the Applicant's control over the ADN by sending a Random Value via email and then receiving a confirming response utilizing the Random Value. The Random Value MUST be sent to a DNS CAA Email Contact. The relevant CAA Resource Record Set MUST be found using the search algorithm defined in RFC 8659, Section 3.

> The same email MAY be sent to multiple recipients as long as all recipients are DNS CAA Email Contacts for the Authorization Domain Name being validated.

Author: Ah, good point! I had been thinking of this as covering a case that is also covered by "choose the same ADN for those FQDNs" but of course that might not be possible; they might just both have the same email address in CAA.

##### 3.2.2.4.14 Email to DNS TXT Contact

> Confirming the Applicant's control over the ADN by sending a Random Value via email and then receiving a confirming response utilizing the Random Value. The Random Value MUST be sent to a DNS TXT Record Email Contact for the Authorization Domain Name.

Reviewer 5: Nit

```suggestion
Confirming the Applicant's control over the ADN by sending a Random Value via email and then receiving a confirming response utilizing the Random Value. The Random Value MUST be sent to a DNS TXT Record Email Contact for the ADN.
```

##### 3.2.2.4.21 DNS Labeled with Account ID - ACME

Confirming the Applicant's control over the ADN by performing the procedure documented for a “dns-account-01” challenge in draft 00 of “Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) DNS Labeled With ACME Account ID Challenge,” available at [https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-acme-dns-account-label/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-acme-dns-account-label/).

The token (as defined in draft 00 of “Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) DNS Labeled With ACME Account ID Challenge,” Section 3.1) MUST NOT be used for more than 30 days from its creation. The CPS MAY specify a shorter validity period for the token, in which case the CA MUST follow its CPS.

CAs performing validations using this method MUST implement Multi-Perspective Issuance Corroboration as specified in [Section 3.2.2.9](#3229-multi-perspective-issuance-corroboration). To count as corroborating, a Network Perspective MUST observe the same token as the Primary Network Perspective.

##### 3.2.2.4.22 DNS TXT Record with Persistent Value

> Confirming the Applicant's control over a FQDN by verifying the presence of a Persistent DCV TXT Record identifying the Applicant. The record MUST be placed at the "`_validation-persist`" label prepended to the Authorization Domain Name being validated (i.e., "`_validation-persist.[Authorization Domain Name]`"). For this method, the CA MUST NOT use the FQDN returned from a DNS CNAME lookup as the FQDN for the purposes of domain validation. This prohibition overrides the Authorization Domain Name definition. CNAME records MAY be followed when resolving the Persistent DCV TXT Record.

Reviewer: Thanks, I've incorporated this change, but also removed the comment about following CNAMEs during TXT resolution, because that's Just How DNS Works (tm).

##### 3.2.2.5.3 Reverse Address Lookup

> Confirming the Applicant's control over the IP Address by obtaining an FQDN associated with the IP Address through a reverse-IP lookup on the IP Address and then using that FQDN as an ADN and performing validation using a method permitted under [Section 3.2.2.4](#3224-validation-of-domain-authorization-or-control). The ADN for this method MUST be exactly the FQDN returned from the reverse-IP lookup. The ADN selection algorithm in section 3.2.2.4 does not apply.

Reviewer 6: Is it intentional that the ballot effective date only applies to section 3.2.2.4? Since this change requires action by CAs to comply, section 3.2.2.5 should also have an effective date - ideally November 2026 at earliest since migrations will be required.

Since this validation method is being banned in March 2027 anyway, it would be helpful to continue to allow trimming labels until the method is banned; if we require CAs to make the change in the meantime, it could distract from the migration to other methods, and would only have effect for ~4 months with a November 2026 effective date.

Reviewer: This is a rephrasing and clarification, not a change.

The current definition of Authorization Domain Name says that it is "The FQDN used to obtain authorization **for a given FQDN to be included in a Certificate**" (emphasis added). There is no concept of an ADN for IP addresses. If a CA is doing a reverse address lookup on an IP address to get an FQDN, then converting that FQDN into an ADN by pruning labels, they are already violating the BRs.

Therefore there is no need for an effective date on this piece of the ballot.

Reviewer 6: While it is true that the literal definition of an ADN specifies FQDNs 'to be included in a Certificate', Method 3.2.2.5.3 explicitly directs CAs to “verify control over the FQDN using a method permitted under Section 3.2.2.4.” and methods like 3.2.2.4.7 require an ADN to operate. Interpreting the current BRs to forbid the concept of ADN on the FQDN obtained via reverse IP lookup would break the intersection of these two rules, rendering 3.2.2.4.7 unusable with 3.2.2.5.3.

Method 3.2.2.4.7 says:

> Confirming the Applicant's control over the **FQDN** by confirming the presence of a Random Value or Request Token in a DNS CNAME, TXT or CAA record for either:
> 
> 1. **an Authorization Domain Name**; or
> 2. **an Authorization Domain Name** that is prefixed with a Domain Label that begins with an underscore character.

Not 

> Confirming the Applicant's control over the **FQDN** by confirming the presence of a Random Value or Request Token in a DNS CNAME, TXT or CAA record for either:
> 
> 1. **The FQDN**; or
> 2. **The FQDN** that is prefixed with a Domain Label that begins with an underscore character.

> Confirming the Applicant's control over the IP Address by obtaining an FQDN associated with the IP Address through a reverse-IP lookup on the IP Address and then using that FQDN as an ADN and performing validation using a method permitted under [Section 3.2.2.4](#3224-validation-of-domain-authorization-or-control). The ADN for this method MUST be exactly the FQDN returned from the reverse-IP lookup. The ADN selection algorithm in section 3.2.2.4 does not apply.

Reviewer 6: This change to Reverse Address Lookup specifically isn't justified in the PR description or the preamble. The table in the PR description doesn't contain methods from section 3.2.2.5.

Reviewer: This method is "do a reverse address lookup, then do a method from 3.2.2.4 on the result". There's no need for the table to include any information about this method, because it already includes all of the relevant information about the methods to which this method could delegate.

See the comment above for why this isn't actually a change.

##### 3.2.2.5.3 Reverse Address Lookup

> Confirming the Applicant's control over the IP Address by obtaining an FQDN associated with the IP Address through a reverse-IP lookup on the IP Address and then using that FQDN as an ADN and performing validation using a method permitted under [Section 3.2.2.4](#3224-validation-of-domain-authorization-or-control). The ADN for this method MUST be exactly the FQDN returned from the reverse-IP lookup. The ADN selection algorithm in section 3.2.2.4 does not apply.

Reviewer 6: > The ADN for this method MUST be exactly the FQDN returned from the reverse-IP lookup.

This could use some clarification. Is this an additional check to be applied to the reverse IP response? If so, how exactly should a CA perform this check?

Reviewer: It's not a check: the ADN is something that the CA _chooses_, and this is constraining the CA's choice of ADN.

This appendix defines permissible verification procedures for including one or more Onion Domain Names in a Certificate.

> 1. The Authorization Domain Name MUST contain at least two Domain Labels, where the rightmost Domain Label is "onion", and the Domain Label immediately preceding the rightmost "onion" Domain Label is a valid Version 3 Onion Address, as defined in Section 6 of the Tor Rendezvous Specification - Version 3 located at <https://spec.torproject.org/rend-spec-v3>.

Reviewer 5: Nit

```suggestion
1. The ADN MUST contain at least two Domain Labels, where the rightmost Domain Label is "onion", and the Domain Label immediately preceding the rightmost "onion" Domain Label is a valid Version 3 Onion Address, as defined in Section 6 of the Tor Rendezvous Specification - Version 3 located at <https://spec.torproject.org/rend-spec-v3>.
```

> 2. The CA MUST verify the Applicant's control over the Authorization Domain Name using at least one of the methods listed below:

Reviewer 5: Nit

```suggestion
2. The CA MUST verify the Applicant's control over the ADN using at least one of the methods listed below:
```

   a. The CA MAY verify the Applicant's control over the ADN by using any method from [Section 3.2.2.4](#3224-validation-of-domain-authorization-or-control) that says "This method allows Onion Domain Name issuance", with this modification:

>       When these methods are used to verify the Applicant's control over an Onion Domain Name, the CA MUST use Tor protocol to establish a connection to the Authorization Domain Name. The CA MUST NOT delegate or rely on a third-party to establish the connection, such as by using Tor2Web.

Reviewer 5: Nit

```suggestion
      When these methods are used to verify the Applicant's control over an Onion Domain Name, the CA MUST use Tor protocol to establish a connection to the ADN. The CA MUST NOT delegate or rely on a third-party to establish the connection, such as by using Tor2Web.
```

      **Note**: This section does not override or supersede any provisions specified within the respective methods. The CA MUST only use a method if it is still permitted within that section.

>    b. The CA MAY verify the Applicant's control over the .onion service corresponding to the Authorization Domain Name by having the Applicant provide a Certificate Request signed using the .onion service's private key if the Attributes section of the certificationRequestInfo contains:

Reviewer 5: Nit

```suggestion
   b. The CA MAY verify the Applicant's control over the .onion service corresponding to the ADN by having the Applicant provide a Certificate Request signed using the .onion service's private key if the Attributes section of the certificationRequestInfo contains:
```
